# Gradle JNI plugin
-------------------

This is a quick and dirty implementation of a plugin to generate and compile JNI code with Gradle using a Makefile for the native portion.

## Tasks

It consists on three different tasks: *generateJni*, *makeJni* and *makeCleanJni*.

### Task *generateJni*

This task is in charge of generating the header files out of Java classes. It requires several values in order to work correctly:
- *jvmHome*: This is a file object which should point to the JVM home that contains the *javah* executable.
- *classpath*: The classpath that will be used to search for classes with native methods.
- *generatedHeadersDir*: This is the output dir for the headers that will be generated.
- *classes*: A list of string, which contain the fully qualified names of all the classes to be searched for native methods.

One example of configuring the task *generateJni*:

```groovy
generateJni {
    jvmHome = file('/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_31.jdk/Contents/Home')
    classpath = files('$buildDir/classes')
    generatedHeadersDir = file('$src/jni')
    classes = [ 'org.myproject.native.Class1', 'org.myproject.native.Class2' ]
}
```

### Task *makeJni*

This task is in charge of executing the given make file in order to build the library with the given Makefile. It requires the following values to work correctly:
- *makeFileDir*: Contains the path where the Makefile to be executed is located.
- *makeOutputDir*: Contains the path where the Makefile should place generated artifacts, this value is available to the Makefile via the *OUTPUT* variable.
- *jvmHome*: Contains the path where the JDK is located, this value is available to the Makefile via the *JVM_HOME* variable.

One example of configuring the task *makeJni*:

```groovy
makeJni {
    makeFileDir = file('$src/jni')
    makeOutputDir = file('$buildDir/jni')
    jvmHome = file('/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_31.jdk/Contents/Home')
}
```

### Task *makeCleanJni*

This task is in charge of cleaning the code generated by the Makefile. It requires the following values to work correctly:
- *makeFileDir*: Contains the path where the Makefile to be executed is located.
- *makeOutputDir*: Contains the path where the Makefile placed the generated artifacts, this value is available to the Makefile via the *OUTPUT* variable.

One example of configuring the task *makeCleanJni*:

```groovy
makeCleanJni {
    makeFileDir = file('$src/jni')
    makeOutputDir = file('$buildDir/jni')
}
```

## Configuring all the tasks

The pluging makes a `jni` extension available in order to set all the values necessary for the different tasks instead of configuring each task separately. Example:

```groovy
jni.classes = [ 'org.myproject.native.Class1', 'org.myproject.native.Class2' ]
jni.jvmHome = file('/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_31.jdk/Contents/Home')
jni.generatedHeadersDir = file('$src/jni')
...
```
